---
title: My First Startup Weekend TT - Improving Lives
date: 2015/06/20 22:41
categories:
- [caribbean]
- [startup]
- [trinidad and tobago]
- [weekend hack]
tags:
- startup
- startup weekend
---

Just about to take it easy from some long weeks at work, I got a call
from my friend Abigail on a fateful Friday afternoon. "Coming [Startup
Weekend](http://www.up.co/communities/trinidad-and-tobago/trinidadandtobago/startup-weekend/6183)?".
I was really tired but a bit curious from all the others I've missed.
"Yeah, pick me up". And that's why I came. No real burning desires to
become an entrepreneur, no desires to see if people will like an idea I
got lying around in my head. It seemed like a cool thing to do. Truth be
told, even after arriving I still didn't decide if I wanted to take
part. When people finally started to come (Trinbagonians, no Caribbean
people, can't help but ignore a starting time) I quickly realised I had
no choice. There was just an energy that pulled me in...

## All day, all night (La gente está muy loca)
Once it kicked off on Friday, it kept going until the very end on Sunday
night. After some quick ice breakers that got us to talk with each other
and release those creative juices, the pitches came on. This Startup
Weekend had a social slant, ideas had to improve lives in some way. I
guess the most benevolent people of T&T came out because there were a
lot of ideas! From educational software, to clothes, psychotherapy,
[susu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Susu_(savings)), food waste
management and a lot more. I give credit to people who went up to pitch.
After throwing out all you could to a crowd of strangers in 1 minute,
only the most voted ideas are selected. Not long after people were
getting into teams for the selected ideas (and unselected ones, with
support you can just go right ahead). As a passerby I was just flirting
with different teams, there were at least four ideas I really liked and
didn't want to commit just yet.

Did I mention that a lot of people came out? Apparently on the first day
there were over one hundred people participating!

![La gente de Startup Weekend](/images/startup_weekend_networking.jpg)

That alone made it seem worth it to me. I met new people who do really
different and interesting things. Most importantly, they're willing to
try something new. They got the attitude, they're the kind of people who
would say "why not?" and give it a go. That's why they're at Startup
Weekend anyway. It's refreshing to meet so many people like that!

Some interesting things about the crowd: lots of women and not much
techies (and culture). This is interesting not because of
personal/societal expectations but rather conversations with previous
participants and organisers. The old guard always saw a healthy gender
balance in the events. This event just had a bit more women than
usual. Some accredited the social slant of the competition. What if
women want to get into more entrepreneurial activities in T&T? Some
other suggestions to explain the high number of women came about, I hope
it's the latter question. I also think it's something that warrants some
research.

Regarding the small number of techies, apparently there's always been a
lack of them. I counted eleven software developers, the demand for us
was much greater than the supply (especially when one group got four
lol). Staying back late at night on Saturday, a lot of the organisers
were surprised by how many people left already. I get the feeling that
the previous competitions were a bit more
like [hackathons](/2015/05/24/yopro-caribbean-ideas-hackathon-2015/).
Talking with some coders who did this before, they noticed the change in
atmosphere too - grinding out that prototype app wasn't the 'big thing'
this time. The one sure techie thing that didn't change was the food -
pizza and fried chicken. Tasted great as expected but I'm still waiting
for those healthier food companies to step their sponsorship game up!

## So what about the startups?
Well we didn't work long hours for nothing. I did settle down with a
team on Saturday morning. We were working on a service called 'What
Next?'. Inspired by the personal experience of someone having to figure
out how to get medical treatment for a family member, we plan to bring
it all together so no one would be lost again. After we worked out some
business models and prototype the website and all that jazz, Murphy's
Law just kicked in messed with our presentation right before we went to
present! It was funny, and I think we coped well with missing slides. We
didn't place in the top three, but got some useful criticism which we'll
need to address moving forward. I'm glad I went through the process :).

The teams that placed were really cool. The idea that came third was an
online travel service that would hook you up with people who would want
to do things together. In second place came Nourish, a company that
wants to link food distributors with charities and compost heaps to help
better manage their waste. And in first place there was Mobile Donate -
a company that allows you to donate to charities locally with your phone
credit! It's a pretty cool idea, especially given how much money we
spend to use our phones and the few credit card holders in the country.
They even had a sexy website to demo to crowd - really impressive stuff.
Big up [David Charles](https://tt.linkedin.com/pub/david-charles/b2/172/b82)
and the rest of the squad for coming first and more importantly for a job well
done!

![Mobile Donate swag team](/images/startup_weekend_winners.jpg)

## What about you?
After I recovered (I can't stress how tired I was!) I had some talks
with friends and family about it all. It was clear, to get the most out
of this experience I should actually **start a company**. I'm part
of a team, we got an idea and we're going for it. If What Next? becomes
your goto service for healthcare, you now got a pretty good idea of how
it all began :).

And of course, the token group selfie

![Startup Weekend 2015 Selfie!](/images/startup_weekend_selfie.jpg)

We're missing a couple of soldiers (Super Make It Happen Person - Lekha
and Philosopher - Anton), should have taken that selfie earlier! It's
all good though, we're still in it and the real work begins now. Happy
startuping everyone!
